* Books

** To Read

*** Hamlet

*** Quran

*** The Subtle Knife

*** Game of Thrones

*** Something Japanese

** Reviews

*** 2011 [12/12]

**** DONE On Writing

2011 sometime
Stephen King

本が書きたくなった。

**** DONE The Associate

2011 sometime
John Grisham

My first Grisham. Pretty interesting, had me caring what happened to the
lead character the whole time.

**** DONE タイム・ラッシュ

2011 sometime
神永学

主人公はあまり好きじゃなかった。書き方もまた、八雲みたいに微妙。

**** DONE Daemon

2011 sometime
Daniel Suarez

Amazing. I AM the target audience. I love all the characters, including the
villains. This is definitely one of my favourite books!

**** DONE 告白

2011 sometime
湊かなえ

すごすぎる。一番好きな日本語の本。

**** DONE The Hobbit

2011 May 22
J.R.R. Tolkien

A classic! Read again for the first time in years. Had many parts I didn't
remember. Tolkien utilized scale very well. Things started off quite simple,
but ended in war and the salvation of a great area and a great many people.

**** DONE Faith of the Fallen

2011 July 25
Terry Goodkind

My favourite book, read for the 3rd(?) time. Awesome morality booster. Life
rocks. People can do anything, and religion can only impede that. I was able
to image many of the scenes in my head with more detail than before. My
reading has improved.

**** DONE Dying Eye

2011 Aug 4
東野圭吾

途中は楽しかったが、最初と最後は少しがっかり。特に最後で、あんな何でも有り得
そうな話を作ったのに、なぜその終わり方を選んだか分からない。自分だったらおそ
らく違う結末にしたと思う。衝撃の面で告白に及ばない。

**** DONE Debt of Bones

2011 Aug 18
Terry Goodkind

An interesting view into Zedd's past! We really get an idea of how powerful
and influential he was during his day. Completely different, and yet somehow
the same as the character that we see in the normal series.

**** DONE Empire of the East

2011 Sept 10
Fred Saberhagen

Great read, although it was a bit hard to get into at first. Cool blend of
technology and magic. Something else that always impresses me also appeared
in this book: scale. The scale of the story increases to great effect as the
plot progresses.

**** DONE Freedom (TM)

2011 Sept 19
Daniel Suarez

New world order... a part of me really thinks this needs to happen. I loved
the whole book, and everything panned out pretty well. Loki was brought down
off his high horse, and the Major got what was coming to him. However, also
like the first book, I felt the author could have done so much more with the
world he created. Peter Sebeck went from being a total noob to kicking ass
while the story was focusing on other characters. And what level did he
become after completing the quest? At least tell us that much. And it wasn't
just about Sebeck... I feel like there was so much more I wanted to know
about the other characters that we didn't get full closure from. Still,
great book.

**** DONE Eye of the World

2011 November
Robert Jordan

Epic... again, with scale! Starts small, gets huge! We really get to see the
characters grow. Also, the author is very skilled at making esoteric
language cool, and not dorky.

*** 2012 [7/7]

**** DONE CODE

2012 Jan 9
Charles Petzold

A great book about all things Code. And not just computer code... this book
offered a great glance into the past of man's struggle with representing
information. I honestly learned a lot about the internals of computers. As
critisism goes, the last chapter had a title that refered to one thing, yet
the contents felt like one topic mashed in after another, which lead to a
sort of “Oh, so we're done then” ending. The last paragraph brought
everything back around full circle, but I felt there needed to be a more
fleshed out conclusion.

**** DONE The Great Hunt

2012 Jan 11
Robert Jordan

Another great book. The characters have come a long way. I was quite
satisfied with the epic scene (blowing of the horn, riding with the fallen
heroes, battle with the Dark One) that came near to the end, by the same
formula of the first book. Of the girls, I like Min. Perrin also didn't get
enough spotlight, I felt.

**** DONE Beyond Religion: Ethics for a Whole World

2012 Feb 7
Dalai Lama

Great. Just the book I needed. I've started meditation practice and it's
really interesting to start thinking about my thoughts and emotions more. Up
until the 11th chapter, however, there were several parts that felt very
“light” in that the Dalai Lama would say “We should strive to <insert
profound thing here>” as if it were a simple task.

**** DONE 分身

2012 June 6
東野圭吾

読むのにかなり時間がかかった。それは本が長かったせいではなく、ただ俺は最近ま
であまり本という物を手にしていなかったからだ。「分身」は読みやすかった。ただ
し二人の主人公にそれ程興味を持つことができなかった。作家の訴えたいことが分か
るつもりでいるが、現代では「それでどうした？」という感じが俺の中で強かった。
そのせいか、最後に二人のやっとの出会いの場面で、「あ、よかった」としか思えな
かった。そして二人をほぼ最初から支えていた下条さんと脇坂講介はさらりと切り捨
てられた始末。

**** DONE LYING

2012 Aug 3
Sam Harris

A short book on lying. More of an essay, really. It taught me that to lie,
white lies included, is to deny others reality. It is a refusal to further
your relationship with someone. Truth need only be repeated, while lies need
to be maintained. Lies that one tells to protect someone's feelings can lead
them to decisions that we didn't intend on them making. In the long run,
they are worse off.

Telling the truth doesn't mean you have to be blunt and rude all the time,
it just means you have to be wise with your words. “Truth” can mean many
things.

**** DONE When Parents Text

2012 Aug 14

Gift from my sisters. Quite funny. Laughed out loud a number of times. Was a
good eye-opener to the world of parent-child relationships through
technology.

*** 2015 [/]

**** DONE Storm Front

2015 Dec 20
Jim Butcher

A fun mystery told in first-person. Other than being a wizard, Harry seems
like a normal guy. The book itself was really easy to read, and actually
ends pretty quickly.

I didn't like how the author introduced many book-worthy backstory elements
all at once. It felt like he was rushing to make his protagonist seem deep
and complicated. I thought this way in particular when He Who Walks Behind
was brought up in the police station.

*** 2016 [/]

**** DONE Fool Moon

2016 Jan 1
Jim Butcher

Much more action packed than the first book. I liked how in depth he went
with the various werewolf types.

Near the end there was very much a feeling of 'There is no way he is getting
out of this alive.'

**** DONE Grave Peril

2016 Feb 9
Jim Butcher

This was my favourite so far. There was very much a sense of dread
throughout the book. The interactions with the vampire court, the Nightmare
and Harry were fascinating. I felt as ignorant of the truth as Harry did,
and was surprised when the truth was revealed. Harry also showed us more of
what he was capable of magically.

Great, satisfying, if not sad, ending.

**** DONE Summer Knight

2016 Feb 17
Jim Butcher

Didn't live up to the hype as The-Best-in-the-Series, and the tone was
somehow lighter than Grave Peril. Still, I enjoyed it. The book gave us a
view into the worlds of the White Council and the Faeries, both of which we
previously knew little about. I think I did myself a disservice by reading
the ending late at night.

The twist worked on me; I didn't think the culprit would be Aurora.

As the series progresses, things are getting gradually more fantastical.
This book ending with a mass-Faerie battle in the sky is evidence of that.

**** DONE Death Masks

2016 Mar 18
Jim Butcher

This one wasted no time getting started. Little was resolved, but a new
major character/group was introduced. I imagine they'll be in play for some
time.

Death Masks was more consistently thrilling than *Summer Knight*. I think
the title is referring to Shiro, his terminal condition and fate to die.

**** DONE Blood Rites

2016 Apr 8
Jim Butcher

It seems like all I've been reading is Jum Butcher. The stories are good,
I have to give him that. Dresden himself is an odd creature, and I don't
know if he is a reflection of Butcher himself. I wouldn't be surprised
if that were the case.

Dresden fancies himself 'old fashioned' regarding women, which he is
chastised for. Yet he is completely subservient to them. He admits
himself that he can't refuse a pretty face, and over the course of the
books it's lead him into trouble more than once. He is now making
obvious his attraction to Karrin, but she, surprise surprise, falls for
the bad-boy alpha male (Kincaid). Perhaps then Butcher is aware of that gender
dynamic, as he didn't just throw Karrin at Dresden's feet for saving her
umpteen times.

Dresden is odd, because he's closer to the beta end of the spectrum
mentally, while still fearlessly kicking ass like an alpha. This seems to me
like a beta fantasy, but I don't know enough about Jim Butcher himself to
make a call as to whether Dresden is a reflection of him. Perhaps I should
just stop judging the book for its author, and just accept the message
as-is.

**** DONE Dracula

2016 Apr 25
Bram Stoker

What a drawing book. I could hardly put this down the entire time I was
reading it. I feels like a lengthy novel, but it's hard to tell as I read it
on my Kindle. Even so, I completed it in a week or two.

What a thrill. Somehow I was surprised that an 'old' book could be so
enticing and well written. Why should the present day have a monopoly on
'good literature'? I felt terror for Jonathan Harker as he toiled through
Castle Dracula, sadness at the party's failure to protect Lucy, and tension
toward their pursuit of Dracula through both England and wilder Europe.

Nearing the end I felt no surity that good would prevail and Dracula would
be slain. I can attribute this to the wealth of Dracula lore that has
followed this book. Is Dracula truly dead? The book would have us believe
so, as Dracula crumbled to dust and Mina was freed from her curse. Games
like Castlevania would argue otherwise. I will do more research.

**** DONE The Golden Compass

2016 May

A kids books, and yet it isn't. There are some heavy themes and scientific
content that I'm not convinced a child would be interested in. A fun book
overall though. It paints a picture of a deep and complex world, without
going into too much detail. There are sequels, so I suppose I'll find out
more there.

I started my new job this month, and saw a dip in casual reading time. I
have no commute anymore, meaning there is no time to kill reading.

**** DONE Macbeth

2016 June

The tragedy. The last time I read this was in high school, and I quite
enjoyed going over it again. I've always enjoyed Shakespeare, probably
something to do with my fascination for languages.

Shakespeare has been analysed to death over the centuries, so I doubt I have
much to add. That said, here are some avenues of thought:

Did Macbeth really want to kill Duncan?
Was Duncan a good king?
How long did Macbeth rule?
Why did the Macbeths assume that Duncan's murder was the only way to fulfill the prophecy?

I compared this to the movie To Kill a Man, where Carmen's thought was that
the main character "didn't follow through" with his decision. Yes he killed
the guy, but he didn't own the decision, and eventually his guilt tore him
apart. Macbeth on the other hand owns his decision too much, and kills
everything he even remotely considers a threat to his rule. Had he just
ended his murders with Duncan, it's likely that everything would have been
fine.

A week or two after finishing, Carmen and I watched the 2015 movie version
of Macbeth. It was decent, using mostly Scottish actors and locations. They
had to cut out quite a lot of content, but the story remained in tact.
Without my priming Carmen of the plot, she probably would have had trouble
following the film.

**** DONE The End of Eternity

2016 June 24
Isaac Asimov

Read on Carmen's recommendation. This is a good book up until the last
chapter of the book. With the last chapter, it's an /amazing/ book. This is
easily in my top 5 of books, and definitely deserves a place on the
bookshelf.

The main character Harlan is extremely flawed. Perhaps too much so,
especially given the calm-and-calculating image he presents to us from the
beginning. Despite him saying how subtle he needed to be with his plans, he
was always the first to lose his patience and temper and blurt out whatever
he was thinking. Often, comically, he was wrong. When he /was/ right, it
seems like those conclusions had been given to him by external forces
without his realizing. This leads to the idea that Harlan never had agency
over his actions until the very end, where he himself made the final
decision to spare Noys and thus destroy Eternity. That single autonomous
action of his was enough, in my mind, to solidify his role as the
protagonist and hero.

I liked Asimov's version of time travel in this book. It very much supported
my idea that there are entire realms of scientific possibility out there,
but we aren't aware of them because we haven't yet made some critial
discovery about the universe. Then, having discovered it, we look back and
think: how did humanity ever get by without knowing about this?

My comment upon finishing: "It's us."
